JDK, JRE, and JVM?
Stack and Heap
Access Modifiers
Why Is String an Immutable Class?
String Intern
JAR vs WAR vs EAR
Java is strictly pass-by-value language?
static, abstract and final keywords in Java?
Difference between String, StringBuffer, and StringBuilder?
String.format() 
Enum 
Two Types of Casting in Java?
Is Java statically and strongly typed? 
Does var keyword makes Java as a dynamically typed language?
Why does char use 2 bytes in Java, and not 1 byte like in C/C++?
What is the difference between float and double in Java? When would you use one over the other?
What are wrapper classes in Java, and how do they relate to primitive types?
difference between final, static, and static final variables
OOPs
What is Compile Time Polymorphism and Runtime Polymorphism?
What are the different types of inheritance?
What is diamond problem in Java?
difference between abstract class and interface?
When to use abstract class VS when to use interface?
constructor, copy constructor
Exception handling
What are the scenarios in which finally block will not get executed?
How to use try-with-resources in Java?
Difference Between a Checked and an Unchecked Exception?
Difference Between an Unlabeled and a Labeled break Statement?
Use of the Throw and Throws Keywords?
Difference Between an Error and Exception?
How can you create a custom exception in Java?
try-with-resources:
difference between StackOverflowError and OutOfMemoryError in Java?
What is Java Garbage Collection and how does it work?
What are the different garbage collection algorithms in Java?
What is a memory leak in Java, and how can you detect it?
What are Soft, Weak, and Phantom references in Java
How can you force garbage collection in Java? - System.gc();
What are some of the Useful Annotations used in Java?
What Are Meta-Annotations?
Difference Between Primitive and Reference Types?
Reflection in Java?
Difference Between an Inner Class and a Static Nested Class?
difference between equals() and ==?
What Is an Anonymous Class and what is it's Use Case?
What Is a Marker Interface and examples of Marker Interfaces in Java?
What Is an Immutable Class and how to create it?
Is it possible to Override a Static Method?
How to Compare Two Enum Values?
What is the purpose of the this keyword?
How does the final keyword affect class inheritance and method overriding?
What Are the Wrapper Classes and what is autoboxing and unboxing in Java?
What Is a Var-Arg and how to use it? What are benefits and limitations?

What Is the Difference Between a Process and a Thread?
How can we create a Thread in Java?
Describe the Different States of a Thread?
What Is a Daemon Thread and how to create a Daemon Thread? What are the real use cases of Daemon thread?
What Is the Difference Between the Runnable and Callable Interfaces?
What Is Java Memory Model (JMM) and it' s purpose?
What is Data Race Condition and Visibility problem?
Explain about Deadlock, Livelock, and Starvation conditions in Java Multithreading?
What is Java Executor Service and type of threadpools which can be created with Java Executor service?
What is Producer-Consumer problem and how to resolve it?
What is threadLocal and what are the advantages of using ThreadLocal?
What are Virtual Threads in Java 21?
What is the Fork/Join Framework in Java?
What Is the Purpose of the Wait, Notify and Notifyall Methods?
What Is the Purpose of the Thread.yield()?
What is the purpose of Semaphore?
Approaches to write efficient and scalable code in Java concurrency?






